doc/guide/cubesviewer-model.md, before:

CubesViewer - OLAP Visual Viewer and Explore Tool
=================================================

CubesViewer model options
-------------------------

Some of CubesViewer features rely on your model being correctly configured. This is required, for example,
in order to identify date dimensions so CubesViewer knows which dimensions can be used by date filters.

Remember to **restart your Cubes server after changing cube metadata** in order for the changes to be picked up.


Labels
------

Cubes supports the `label` attribute on every object. If available, CubesViewer will show this attribute
when referring to Cubes, Dimensions, Hierarchies, Levels and other Cubes objects.


Ordering
--------

When sorting data, CubesViewer will follow the `order_attribute` in your model definition if available.
Cubes default order_attribute is the key, which is often not desired, therefore setting this parameter
in your model is recommended.

You can control ordering by setting the `order_attribute` for dimension levels in the model:

```
    "levels": [
           {
               "name":"month",
               "label":"Month"
               "role": "month",
               'attributes': ['month', 'month_name']
               "label_attribute": "month_name,
               "order_attribute": "month",
           },
           ...
```


Date Filtering
--------------

CubesViewer has a "Date Filter" option that shows a special cut filter for date dimensions. In order for it
to work, you need to add information to your model, using also the "role" attribute of dimension and levels.

1. For each date dimension, add an "role" attribute with "time" value.
2. Optionally, also add an "info" dictionary, with a "cv-datefilter-hierarchy" attribute pointing to
   your desired date filtering hierarchy, if it is not "default".
3. For each *level* involved in your date filtering, add a "role" attribute
   identifying the unit of date value (one of "year", "quarter", "month", "week" or "day").

More information about roles at https://pythonhosted.org/cubes/model.html#roles

This is an example dimension "date_created" showing this configuration:

```
    "dimensions": [
        {
            "name": "date_created",
            "label": "Date Created",
            "role": "time",
            "info": {
                "cv-datefilter-hierarchy": "weekly"
            },
            "levels": [
                   {
                       "name":"year",
                       "label":"Year",
                       "role": "year"
                   },
                   {
                       "name":"quarter",
                       "label":"Quarter",
                       "role": "quarter"
                   },
                   {
                       "name":"month",
                       "label":"Month"
                       "role": "month",
                       "order_attribute": "month",
                       "label_attribute": "month_name,
                       'attributes': ['month', 'month_name']
                   },
                   {
                       "name":"week",
                       "label":"Week",
                       "role": "week"
                   }
               ],
            "hierarchies": [
                {
                    "name": "weekly",
                    "label": "Weekly",
                    "levels": [ "year", "week"]
                },
                {
                    "name": "monthly",
                    "label": "Monthly",
                    "levels": [ "year", "quarter", "month"]

                }
            ]
        },
        {
            "name": "date_updated_last",
            "label": "Last Update",
            "template": "date_created"
        },
        ...
```


Range Filtering
---------------

**Note:** This feature is temporarily not available, but will be brought back soon.

CubesViewer has a "Range Filter" option that shows a special cut filter for ranges. This can be applied
to simple dimensions which *keys* are sortable.

In order for this to work, you need to add information to your model.

1. For each range dimension, add an "info" attribute called "cv-rangefilter" with "true" value.
2. Optionally, also add an "info" attribute "cv-rangefilter-slider" if you wish the filter
   to include a slider. This attribute must be a dictionary with "min", "max" and "step" keys, as shown
   in the example below:

This is an example dimension "year" showing this configuration:

```
    "dimensions": [
        {
            "name": "date_year",
            "label": "Year",
            "info": {
                "cv-rangefilter": true,
                "cv-rangefilter-slider": {
                    "min": 2006,
                    "max": 2012,
                    "step": 1
                }
            }
        },
        ...
```


Per-cube default configuration from Cubes model
-----------------------------------------------

Sometimes you may wish to define an initial default configuration for each cube.
You can do so by adding a "cv-view-params" dictionary to the cube "info". This way
you can, for example, hide some columns, apply a datefilter or show a chart view as
a default for a given cube:

```
        "name": "cube_name",
        "info": {
            "cv-view-params": {
                "mode": "chart",
                "xaxis": "date:quarter",
                "yaxis": "record_count"
            }
        }
        ...
```


Note that this settings won't apply if you are creating a view passing configuration
parameters as JSON. This option impacts cube views created with no options (as you'd
do when working from CubesViewer Studio, or when using the `viewService.createView()`
API call with empty options).


Measure Formatting
------------------

You can apply a formatting expression to your measures like shown in the
example below.

```
    "measures": [
        {
            "label": "expense_total",
            "name": "expense_total",
            "info": {
              "cv-formatter": "Math.formatnumber(value, 2) + (value != undefined ? ' €' : '')"
            }
        },
        ...
```

The `cv-formatter` value is a Javascript expression that returns a formatted
string.

You can use the `Math.formatnumber` function (added by CubesViewer) which
formats a number the given number of decimal places and optional thousands
separator.

Remember to restart your Cubes server when changing cube metadata in order
for the changes to be picked up.

Further information
-------------------

* [Documentation index](index.md)

Commit message:

Adding information about maps model.

doc/guide/cubesviewer-model.md, after:

CubesViewer - OLAP Visual Viewer and Explore Tool
=================================================

CubesViewer model options
-------------------------

Some of CubesViewer features rely on your model being correctly configured. This is required, for example,
in order to identify date dimensions so CubesViewer knows which dimensions can be used by date filters.

Remember to **restart your Cubes server after changing cube metadata** in order for the changes to be picked up.


Labels
------

Cubes supports the `label` attribute on every object. If available, CubesViewer will show this attribute
when referring to Cubes, Dimensions, Hierarchies, Levels and other Cubes objects.


Ordering
--------

When sorting data, CubesViewer will follow the `order_attribute` in your model definition if available.
Cubes default order_attribute is the key, which is often not desired, therefore setting this parameter
in your model is recommended.

You can control ordering by setting the `order_attribute` for dimension levels in the model:

```
    "levels": [
           {
               "name":"month",
               "label":"Month"
               "role": "month",
               'attributes': ['month', 'month_name']
               "label_attribute": "month_name,
               "order_attribute": "month",
           },
           ...
```


Date Filtering
--------------

CubesViewer has a "Date Filter" option that shows a special cut filter for date dimensions. In order for it
to work, you need to add information to your model, using also the "role" attribute of dimension and levels.

1. For each date dimension, add an "role" attribute with "time" value.
2. Optionally, also add an "info" dictionary, with a "cv-datefilter-hierarchy" attribute pointing to
   your desired date filtering hierarchy, if it is not "default".
3. For each *level* involved in your date filtering, add a "role" attribute
   identifying the unit of date value (one of "year", "quarter", "month", "week" or "day").

More information about roles at https://pythonhosted.org/cubes/model.html#roles

This is an example dimension "date_created" showing this configuration:

```
    "dimensions": [
        {
            "name": "date_created",
            "label": "Date Created",
            "role": "time",
            "info": {
                "cv-datefilter-hierarchy": "weekly"
            },
            "levels": [
                   {
                       "name":"year",
                       "label":"Year",
                       "role": "year"
                   },
                   {
                       "name":"quarter",
                       "label":"Quarter",
                       "role": "quarter"
                   },
                   {
                       "name":"month",
                       "label":"Month"
                       "role": "month",
                       "order_attribute": "month",
                       "label_attribute": "month_name,
                       'attributes': ['month', 'month_name']
                   },
                   {
                       "name":"week",
                       "label":"Week",
                       "role": "week"
                   }
               ],
            "hierarchies": [
                {
                    "name": "weekly",
                    "label": "Weekly",
                    "levels": [ "year", "week"]
                },
                {
                    "name": "monthly",
                    "label": "Monthly",
                    "levels": [ "year", "quarter", "month"]

                }
            ]
        },
        {
            "name": "date_updated_last",
            "label": "Last Update",
            "template": "date_created"
        },
        ...
```


Range Filtering
---------------

**Note:** This feature is temporarily not available, but will be brought back soon.

CubesViewer has a "Range Filter" option that shows a special cut filter for ranges. This can be applied
to simple dimensions which *keys* are sortable.

In order for this to work, you need to add information to your model.

1. For each range dimension, add an "info" attribute called "cv-rangefilter" with "true" value.
2. Optionally, also add an "info" attribute "cv-rangefilter-slider" if you wish the filter
   to include a slider. This attribute must be a dictionary with "min", "max" and "step" keys, as shown
   in the example below:

This is an example dimension "year" showing this configuration:

```
    "dimensions": [
        {
            "name": "date_year",
            "label": "Year",
            "info": {
                "cv-rangefilter": true,
                "cv-rangefilter-slider": {
                    "min": 2006,
                    "max": 2012,
                    "step": 1
                }
            }
        },
        ...
```


Per-cube default configuration from Cubes model
-----------------------------------------------

Sometimes you may wish to define an initial default configuration for each cube.
You can do so by adding a "cv-view-params" dictionary to the cube "info". This way
you can, for example, hide some columns, apply a datefilter or show a chart view as
a default for a given cube:

```
        "name": "cube_name",
        "info": {
            "cv-view-params": {
                "mode": "chart",
                "xaxis": "date:quarter",
                "yaxis": "record_count"
            }
        }
        ...
```


Note that this settings won't apply if you are creating a view passing configuration
parameters as JSON. This option impacts cube views created with no options (as you'd
do when working from CubesViewer Studio, or when using the `viewService.createView()`
API call with empty options).


Measure Formatting
------------------

You can apply a formatting expression to your measures like shown in the
example below.

```
    "measures": [
        {
            "label": "expense_total",
            "name": "expense_total",
            "info": {
              "cv-formatter": "Math.formatnumber(value, 2) + (value != undefined ? ' €' : '')"
            }
        },
        ...
```

The `cv-formatter` value is a Javascript expression that returns a formatted
string.

You can use the `Math.formatnumber` function (added by CubesViewer) which
formats a number the given number of decimal places and optional thousands
separator.

Remember to restart your Cubes server when changing cube metadata in order
for the changes to be picked up.

Map charts / Geographic information
-----------------------------------

CubesViewer needs extra metadata in order to present map charts. This is covered
on a separate chapter of this guide: [CubesViewer Maps](cubesviewer-maps.md)



Further information
-------------------

* [Documentation index](index.md)
